Story of Hiranyakashipu - Birth and Penance 

Introduction: 
Hirankashap, Originally called as Hiranyakashipu was a asura and King of Daityas. Hiranyakashipu name literally translates as "clothed in Gold.", which is often interpreted as one who is found of wealth and sensual comforts. It is also said in some purans that Hiranyakashap sat or was nearby during thr Atiratra i.e Soma Sacrifice. 

The story of Hiranyakashap is divided in 3 different parts. 
1. Curse gievn by four kumaras to the Gate keepers of Vishnu's vaikunta, Jaya and Vijaya which led to birth in SathYuga
2. Penance of Hiranyakashap to Brahma and gain the boom from him. 
3. Efforts to kill his own som Prahallada which is ultimately resulted in the death of himself by Narasimha - Avatar of Vishnu. 


Birth. 
According to Bhagrata Purana, both Hiranyakashap and Hiranyakasha are the gate keepers Jaya and Vijaya of vaikunta. They were brn on earth due to the curse from the four kumars. In sathyuga, they were called as Hiranya. They were born to diti and sage Kashyapa. Asuras were born to them as a result of union at the time of Dusk.(Evening)

Penance:
After the death of Hiranyakshaya by Varaha, (Avatar of Vishnu), Hiranyakashap developed hate towards vishu, As a result kashap decides to perform penance for Brahma and gain the magical powers. But when Brahma appears in front of Hiranyakashap, and gives choice to offer boom, kashap asks for Immortality but Brahma refuses. So in return HiranyaKashap makes request as he should not meet death from any kind of living entites created by Brahma, he would not die within any residence, during any daytime or during night time, nor by a weapon nor by an animal or human. 
Since which no one can kil him in the battlefield, these powers would never lost. there are many different variations by different purans such as Shiva Puran, Bayu Puran etc. 
In Mahabharata Sage upmanyu mentioned Lord Kisrhna that Hiranyakashap also performed another Penance to Lord shive, Shiva granted him with unrivalled combact powers as well as powers of Gods Indra, Kubera, Yama, Surya Agni. 
In result of these two boons, Hiranyakashap became so might that he could shake the roots of Great Himalayas. It is also said that Ranvana tried to lift his earrings but wasnt able t lift, they were too heavy. 

According to purana's, Hiranyakashap ruled for 107,280,000 years which were equivalent to 24 Mahayugas. 




⁡⁣⁢⁣POST -3 ⁡

Story of Hiranyakashap - Prahalada and Narsimha

During Hiranyakashap was performing penance for Lord Brahma his house was attacked by Indra and other devas, At that point of time the divine age Narada came into rescue, Kayadhu the wife of Hiranyakashap, who was said to be sinless. Then after Narada took Kayadu under his core. During the period  unborn child was in Kayadhu womb he was "Prahalada". Prahalada, was influenced by the words of sage Narada. 

Narada was a follower and devotee of Vishnu. In the growing stages Prahalada showed the sign of worshi pping Vishnu. Due to which Hiranyakashap was dissapointed as Vishnu was his rival. 
Later the time passed Hiranyakashap developed anger on his son Prahalada, which later he tried to kill his son, but failed always as he was always protected by the powers of Vishnu. 
When Hiranyakashap asked his son to accept him as the Lord of Universe, but Prahalada refused. So a pillar nearby, Kashap asked his son weather Vishnu was in there, Prahalada replys that Vishnu was everywhere in the Universe. In anger Kashap, smashes the pillar with the maze. A huge sound ocuuered. 
Narasimha occured from the broken pillor and moves to attack Hiranyakashap in defense of Prahalada/ 
It was  Vishnu, who appeared in the form of Narsimha, in order to kill Hiranyakashap, without voilating boom of Brahma. Narsimha killed Hiranyakashap in the form of animal and human and deva, taking him to the couteryard and threshold (Not in the residence nor outside) in the twilight (Nor day nor night) on his tigh (Nor land nor sky) and by his nails (Nor weapon). In this way HiranyaKashap was killed by Narsimha. 
Later on the Gods and Godess were unable to calm Narsimha, so gods decided to call his consort Lakshmi. Even them they were unaable to calm Narsimha. Later on Brahma requested Prahalada. Prahalada was presented to narsimha to calm with his devotion and prayers

Few facts to know: 
1. Holika was sister of Hiranyakashap and Hiranyakashya. Daughter of Diti and Kashap sage. 
2. HiranyaKashap rules Matsya Kingdom 
3. In the name of Narsimha, there is a temple located in yadrigutta near Hyderabad, Telangana. Named as Laxmi Narsimha Swamy temple. (it is in between a rock cave.)





Hey hello 



⁡⁢⁣⁣POST - 4 
⁡
History of Jagannath - Part 1 
There are two different forms of stories of Lord Jagannath 

In this blog, we will be covering the first part of story 

Accoding to legend, construction of Jagannath temple was commissioned by King Indradyumanu, Son of Bharata and sunanda, Malva King, mentioned in Mahabharata and Puranas. Lord Jagannath was Originally worshipped as "Lord Neel Madhaba" by savar king (Tribal cheif) named Viswasu. Having heard about the deity. King Indradyumanu, sent a Brahmin preist name Vidhyapati to locate the deity, who was worshipped secertly in a dense forest by Viswasu. 

Vidhyapati tried his best but cold not locate the place.But atlast he managed to marry Viswasu's Daughter lalita. Then at repeated request of vidhyapati, Viswasu took his son-in-law blind folded to a cave where "Lord Neela Madhaba" was worshipped. Vidhyapati was very intelligent, He dropped mustard seedsd on groud on his way. The seeds germinated after a few days which enabled him to find cave later on. 

On hearing from him, king Indradyumanu proceeded immediately to odisha on pilgrimage to see and woship the diety. But deity had disappeared. The king was dissapointed, the deity was hidden in sand. King decided to not return without darshan and observed fast unto death on Mount Neela. 

A voice cried out, then the king performed Horse sacrifice and built a magnificient temple for Vishnu. Narsimha murti was brought by Narada was installed in temple. the During sleep, king had a vision of Lord Jagannath. The voice direted him to receive the fragment of tree on the seashore and make idols out of it. 

Accordingly, the king got the image of Lord Jagannath, Balabadra, Subhadra and chakra Sudharshan was made out of wood of divine tree and instaled in Temple. 

Indradyumanu's prayer to Lord Brahma:

King put Lord Jagannath in tallest monument of the world. It has 1000 cubic meter high. He invited Lord Brahma, the cosmin creator, Brahma came from heaven. seeing temple he was pleased wth him for having put most beautiful Temple for Lord vishnu. with folded hands, Indradyumanu said, " My lord, if you are really pleased with me, kindly bless me with one thing, it is that i should be issueless and that i should be last member of My family. " In case anybody left after him, he would only take pride as the owner of temple and would not work for soceity.""



⁡⁢⁢⁣
⁡⁣⁣⁢POST -5 
⁡
Story of Jagannath - Part 2 

The traditional story conserning origin of Lord Jagannath temple is original image of Jagannath at end of Drapara Yuga, manifested near Banayan tree, near Seashore in form of an Indranila ani or Blue Jewel. It was so dazzling that it could grant instant Makshya. So God, Dharma, or yama wanted to hide in the earth and were successful. In kaliyuga Malwa king Indradyumanu wanted to find that myserious image and to do so he perfomred harsh penance to obtain his goal. 

Vishnu then instrcted him to go to puri seashore and find flating log and make yajna, God Yajna Narsimha apeeared an istructed that Narayana should be made as farfold expansion, i.e parmatma as vasudeva. Yogamaya as Subadra, vyuha as samkarshana, and vibhava as Sudharshana. 

Vishwakarma appeard in form of artisian and prepared images of Jagannath, Balabadra and Subadra from the tree. when this log was seen floating Narada told to make 3 idols of it. Indradyumanu got Vishwakarma, the architect of gods, to build magnificient temple house of idols. Vishnu himself appeared in the guise of carpenter to make the idols, he asked one thing from the king, i.e that he was to be left undisturbed untill he finished the work. 

But just after two weeks, the queen became very anxious she took the carpenter to the be dead as no sound came from the temple. Therefore, she requested the king to open the door. Thus, they went to see Vishnu at work at which the latter abandoned his work leaving the idols unfinshed. The idols was deviod of any hands, But a divine voice told Indradyumanu to install them in temple. It has also been widely believed taht in spite of idols being without hands, it can watchover the world and be its lord. 

- It is said Lord Vishnu Gets up in Rameshwaram, have bath then goes to Dwarka for his kingdom work and then gets to Jagannath puri to have his royal lunch. 
- Jagannath is only god which dies in milenium. 
- Every year the Rathyatra is planned in puri celebrated as a maha festival, 3 raths are created every year from the start scrath. 40 feet, 44 feet and 42 feet for 3 brother and sister, Balabadra, Subhadra and Jagannath.
-Even today the puri comes at the start of rath, then sweeps with the golden groom and sets starts the rathyatra. 
- More than 600 cooks involve in making food for the visitors daily. 
- every year after the bath of Gods, the temple will remain close for 7 days as it is considered that Gods remain ill during these days. 
- The Rathyatra is of 3 km from the temple Considered to be one of the biggest festivals of State. 
